What is Git?
Git is a distributed version control system. It helps you:

Track changes to your files over time.
Collaborate with others on projects without overwriting each other’s work.
Roll back to previous versions if something goes wrong.
Key Git Concepts:
Repository (Repo):
A project folder that Git tracks. It contains all the files, their history, and metadata.

Commit:
A snapshot of your changes. Think of it as saving your progress with a message describing what you did.

Branch:
A parallel version of your project. You can create branches to work on new features without affecting the main code.

Merge:
Combining changes from one branch into another.

Staging Area:
A place to prepare your changes before committing them.

Pull & Push:

Pull: Download changes from a remote repository.
Push: Upload your changes to a remote repository.
What is GitHub?
GitHub is a platform for hosting Git repositories in the cloud. It adds collaboration features like:

Pull Requests: Suggest changes to a project.
Issues: Track bugs and feature requests.
Forks: Create your copy of someone else’s repo to modify and experiment with.


Think of GitHub as a social platform for coders where you can:
1. Showcase your projects.
2. Collaborate with others.
3. Explore open-source projects.

How Git and GitHub Work Together
1. Create a local repository using Git.
2. Push your local repo to GitHub for backup or collaboration.
3. Pull changes from GitHub to sync your local repo.



Commands to Get Started
Here’s a cheat sheet for common Git commands:

Setting Up Git:
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"

Basic Workflow:
1. Initialize a Repo: git init
2. Check Repo Status: git status

3. Add Changes to Staging: git add <file> # Add all changes:
                           git add .
4. Commit Changes:
git commit -m "Describe your changes"
5. Push to GitHub:
git remote add origin <repository-url>
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main

Collaboration:
Clone a Repo: git clone <repository-url>
Pull Changes: git pull




